# Box Model

- Box Model is a core foundation of CSS
- Everything display in CSS is a box.

## Content and Sizing

- Boxes have different behavior based on their display value, their set dimensions, and the content they contain. This content could be plain text, or more boxes generated by child elements. Either way, the content affects the size of the box by default.

- Use attribute data-sizing=['intrinsic'] to styling behavior of with and height in box model

## The areas of box models

- There are fours areas in box model, each part have specific duty: `content-box`, `padding-box`, `border-box`, `margin-box`.
- `Content-box`: This the content lives in, the content can affect the size of its parent.
- `Padding-box`: This surrounds the content box and is the space created by the padding property.
- `Border-box`: The border box surrounds the padding box, and its space is defined by the border value, which creates a visual frame for the element. The element's border edge is the limit of what you can see.
- `Margin-box`: This is the space around your box, defined by the box's margin rule. And also the size of this area don't effect size of model

## Control the box model

- The property affect to the box model is display, for example: With the `div` we have default value of property `display` is `block`, , a `li` has a default display value of list-item, and a `span` has a default display value of inline.
- Diff: The `inline` has vertical margin but it not react with other element, `inline-block` will make the `block margin` affect on other element. The main diff between the `block` and `inline` is the inline will claim enough width for content itself, in the other hands `block` will claim all the width.

## Border box sizing

- A box have default value of property `box-sizing` is `content-box`. The actual width of the box is width of content + border + padding
- To keep the width is consistent as you styling we using value `border-box`, the size of box is pushed in (mean: width = adjusted width + border + margin)
